FlyWeight Pattern

What is Flyweight Pattern?
The Flyweight Pattern is a structural design pattern used to minimize memory usage by sharing
as much data as possible with similar objects.

The Flyweight Pattern allows you to create a large number of similar objects efficiently by sharing
common data among them, rather than creating separate instances for each object.

Simple terms:
It Separates the intrinsic state (shared data) from the extrinsic state (unique data) of an object,
allowing you to reuse the intrinsic state across multiple objects.

When to Use It?
- When you need to create a large number of similar objects that share common data.
- When you want to reduce memory usage and improve performance by sharing common data among objects.
- When you want to separate the intrinsic state (shared data) from the extrinsic state (unique data) of an object.

Why to Use It?
The Flyweight Pattern is useful when you want to reduce memory usage and improve performance by sharing common data
among a large number of similar objects. It helps in creating a cleaner, more maintainable codebase by separating
concerns and encapsulating the complexity of the underlying implementation.

How to Use It?
To use the Flyweight Pattern, you need to define a common interface for both the intrinsic state (shared data)
and the extrinsic state (unique data) of an object. Then, you can create a concrete class that implements this interface
and represents the intrinsic state (shared data) of an object. Next, you can create a factory class that manages the
creation and sharing of flyweight objects. Finally, you can create a client that interacts with the flyweight objects,
allowing it to reuse the intrinsic state (shared data) across multiple objects.

``` kotlin
Bad Design:

class Tree(private var xCoordinate: Int, private var yCoordinate: Int, private var name: String, private var color: String) {

    fun draw() {
        println("Drawing tree $name at ($xCoordinate, $yCoordinate) with color $color")
    }

}

class Forest {
    private val trees = mutableListOf<Tree>()

    fun plantTree(xCoordinate: Int, yCoordinate: Int, name: String, color: String) {
        val tree = Tree(xCoordinate, yCoordinate, name, color)
        trees.add(tree)
    }

    fun drawForest() {
        for (tree in trees) {
            tree.draw()
        }
    }
}

class Client {
    fun main() {
        val forest = Forest()
        for(int i in 0..100000) {
            forest.plantTree(i, i, "Tree $i", "Green")
        }
        forest.drawForest()
    }

    println("Memory usage: ${Runtime.getRuntime().totalMemory() - Runtime.getRuntime().freeMemory()} bytes")
}
```

Issues with the code
1. The `Tree` class contains both intrinsic state (name, color) and extrinsic state (xCoordinate, yCoordinate),
which means that each instance of the `Tree` class will store the same intrinsic data, leading to increased memory usage.

2. The `Forest` class creates a new `Tree` instance for each tree planted, even if the intrinsic state is the same,
resulting in unnecessary memory allocation.

How Flyweight Pattern solves the issues
1. By separating the intrinsic state (name, color) from the extrinsic state (xCoordinate, yCoordinate) of the `Tree` class,
   we can create a single instance of the intrinsic state and share it among multiple objects, reducing memory usage.
2. By introducing a factory class that manages the creation and sharing of flyweight objects, we can ensure that
   only one instance of the intrinsic state is created for each unique combination of intrinsic data, further
   reducing memory usage and improving performance.

TreeType Class:
This acts as the flyweight object. It stores data common to all trees of a given type—like name, color, and texture.
Instead of duplicating this data, we create only one instance per unique combination.

Tree Class:
This now only stores:
Intrinsic data: x, y (unique to each tree)
Reference to shared data: A TreeType instance

TreeFactory Class: This is the central factory that ensures TreeType instances are reused:

Memory Efficiency: Even with 1 million trees, if they all share the same TreeType, only one TreeType object is
created and shared across all trees, reducing memory usage dramatically.

Pros and Cons of Flyweight Pattern
Pros:
- Reduces memory usage by sharing common data among similar objects.
- Improves performance by minimizing object creation and memory allocation.

Cons:
- Increases complexity in managing and maintaining the flyweight objects.
- May introduce performance overhead due to the additional layer of indirection.

Real-World Example:
Google Maps uses the Flyweight Pattern to efficiently render map tiles. Each tile shares common data
(like terrain type, roads, and landmarks) while maintaining unique coordinates for each tile.
This allows Google Maps to display a vast number of tiles without consuming excessive memory.